There are many people who love to boast.
Politicians frequently boast
about what they have done
and what they have promised to do
for their constituents.
And businessmen,
they love to boast
about how successful they are
and how much money they are making.
And athletes, you know,
athletes are prideful, many of them.
And they boast about the events
that they’ve been great in
and that they’ve won.
In fact, you know, it’s interesting to note
that in the highly competitive sports world,
there is an expression for great achievers.
The expression is GOAT
—G-O-A-T—
greatest of all time.
Can you imagine people thinking
that somehow they have been
the greatest of all time?
When we hear the words
“greatest of all time,”
only one person comes to mind.
He was the greatest man who ever lived
—truly the greatest of all time,
Jesus Christ.
And his greatness had nothing to do
with politics, business,
or playing games.
But it had everything to do
with praising Jehovah and boasting
in Jehovah God.
Jesus knew the counsel that’s recorded
at Jeremiah chapter 9,
verses 23, 24.
And this scripture, this text, is beautiful.
Jeremiah 9:23, 24
—it says:
“This is what Jehovah says:
“‘Let not the wise man boast
about his wisdom;
“‘let not the mighty man boast
about his mightiness;
“‘and let not the rich man boast
about his riches.
“‘But let the one boasting
“‘boast about this:
“‘That he has insight and knowledge of me,
“‘that I am Jehovah,
“‘the One showing loyal love,
“‘justice, and righteousness in the earth,
“‘for in these things
I take delight,’ declares Jehovah.”
Isn’t that beautiful?
So to boast in Jehovah really means
that we take pride in our God, Jehovah.
We’re proud to bear his name.
We rejoice in his reputation.
We’ve got it in the Scriptures,
and we can see it
in the organization today.
And Jehovah takes delight
when we boast in him
—in his provisions, in his justice,
in his promises, and in his loyal love.
So you students of the 150th class of Gilead
(students, soon-to-be graduates,
I should add),
you’ve got a lot of reasons
to boast in Jehovah God.
And you know that throughout his ministry,
Jesus boasted in Jehovah.
If you examine closely the Scriptures
and things that Jesus said,
you’ll be able to see on many occasions
how he boasted in Jehovah.
Just to give you one example,
remember when the rich young ruler
approached Jesus and he said:
“[Oh,] Good Teacher”
to the Lord Jesus Christ?
And what did Jesus say?
“Why do you call me good?
Nobody is good except one, God.”
That was a wonderful boast
in Jehovah God, glorifying him.
So you students can boast in Jehovah
(you’ve been doing it for a long time)
because now you have
the privilege of going out,
fulfilling an assignment,
and showing how much
you really do rely on Jehovah God.
You can boast because you’ve experienced
what Jesus declared
at John 8:32.
Jesus said: “And you will know the truth,
and the truth will set you free.”
Well, that’s something we all know.
But don’t minimize it.
Appreciate the freedom you have right now
because you know the truth.
You’ve been set free
from the lies of this world
that hold people in bondage
about false beliefs in life and death.
You’re free from human thinking that man
is going to remedy
the problems of this old world,
and we know they can’t do it.
They haven’t got the wherewithal to do it.
No man can really “direct his [own steps],”
not even a perfect man.
Jehovah can deliver his people too.
Even where we’re under severe persecution,
Jehovah can intervene
whenever he sees fit to do so.
You can boast also in another thing
—that you are slaves of Jehovah.
Now, you’re in a unique position
because very few slaves
are allowed to choose their master,
but you’ve done it.
You’ve chosen Jehovah God
to be your Master and to be a slave to him.
And you know that Jehovah is with you.
And you’re happy, and you’re willing slaves
of Jehovah and of Jesus Christ.
And it’s a remarkable slavery, really,
because no one has the freedom
that we enjoy in our slavery to Jehovah God.
We’re so free and able to do so many things
serving Jehovah but all the while
enjoying the good life
that God has given to us.
You can boast also in the brotherhood,
that you can gather together
in assemblies to praise Jehovah God.
And you know Jesus’ words are true:
‘Two or three are gathered in his name.
There he is in our midst.’
So whether it’s tens of thousands
gathered together at a big convention
or two or three gathering together secretly,
you know that Jesus Christ is there with you.
You can also boast in the great privilege
you have through prayer.
Just think about it for a moment.
You can talk to the almighty Creator
of the universe personally.
That is really something quite remarkable.
But that is a privilege we have,
and we boast in the privilege we have
of addressing Jehovah
and asking him for his help,
for his spirit to guide us,
for his strength and protection.
And there’s something else too
that I find fascinating
that you can boast in.
You can boast because you bear
the fear-inspiring name
Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Think about that.
You’re carrying Jehovah’s name.
And how grateful, really,
we are that back in 1931
the visible part of Jehovah’s organization
adopted the name Jehovah’s Witnesses!
And it’s not just the name of a religion.
It’s a description of what people do.
They live their lives to honor Jehovah God.
They are living Witnesses of the Creator.
That is a privilege that we have,
and that separates us
from all religion on the earth.
And there’s no other religion
that wants that name anyhow.
But we’re delighted that we have it.
And they regret, perhaps a few,
that they didn’t listen to or adopt it.
We are God’s name people,
and at 1 Chronicles 16:10,
it says this: “Boast about his holy name.
Let the hearts of those
seeking Jehovah rejoice.”
And if you examine synonyms,
“rejoice” is a synonym in certain cases
for “boast”—to boast in Jehovah.
And you can boast over the fact that Jehovah
has allowed you a very special privilege.
You can see the unseen.
Not all people can do that.
The vision of many people in this world
is limited to just the physical
that they see before them,
but they can’t see the unseen.
I remember a man who said,
“What has God ever done for me?”
That poor man.
He was blind—totally blind spiritually.
He enjoyed food, drink,
the things the earth provides,
but he couldn’t see
behind those physical things.
He couldn’t see
that there had to be a wonderful Creator
who provided all of these things for him.
You can see the unseen.
You see Jesus Christ ruling
as King in the heavens.
You see the new world that’s coming.
You see the resurrection of the dead.
You see the functioning
of Jehovah God’s holy spirit
on his people today.
Finally, you know very well
that we’ve only touched
on a few things that you can boast in,
but you’ll want to continue doing that
—boasting in Jehovah.
And right now, I know
(all of you students) you feel great.
You’ve completed your course.
You’ve done it.
You’re graduating from Gilead School,
and now the doors of future activity
are swinging open to you.
So as you undertake your assignments,
whatever and wherever they may be,
do these things, please:
Stay humble,
be happy,
and work hard.
And always esteem highly
the great honor and privilege you have
to “boast in Jehovah.”